[CQT 137] Update readme for open squirrel (#301)
QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel: README.md

# OpenSquirrel: a flexible quantum program compiler.

![CI](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/opensquirrel.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/opensquirrel/)
[![image](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/opensquirrel.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/opensquirrel)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![pytest](https://img.shields.io/badge/py-test-blue?logo=pytest)](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 jgs `"=\_  )_"`
          ``'"`
```

> OpenSquirrel is a quantum compiler that chooses a _modular_, over a _configurable_, approach to prepare and optimize quantum circuits for heterogeneous target architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

OpenSquirrel is a quantum compiler that chooses a _modular_, over a _configurable_, approach to prepare and optimize quantum circuits for heterogeneous target architectures.
```

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()
```
This can also be done directly using a `CQASM3` string as shown below,
```python
from opensquirrel.circuit import Circuit

cqasm_string = (
"""
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

H q[0]
Z q[0]
Y q[0]
Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
""")

qc = Circuit.from_string(cqasm_string)
```

The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

```python
from opensquirrel.writer import writer

writer.circuit_to_string(circuit)
The output is then the following `cQASM3` string.
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(1.5707963) q[0]
Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(3.1415927) q[0]
Rz(1.5707963) q[0]
Ry(1.0471976) q[0]

> Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]
> ## Documentation
> 
> OpenSquirrel documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://QuTech-Delft.github.io/OpenSquirrel/).
> The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]
```

## Documentation

OpenSquirrel documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://QuTech-Delft.github.io/OpenSquirrel/).
The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with
````

It has a user-friendly interface and is straightforwardly extensible with custom-made readers, compiler passes, and exporters.
As a quantum circuit compiler, it is fully aware of the semantics of each gate and arbitrary quantum gates can be constructed manually.
It understands the quantum programming language cQASM 3 and will support additional quantum programming languages in the future.
It is developed in modern Python and follows best practices.

## Installation
We encourage installing OpenSquirrel via `pip`:
```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel
```
To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:
```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```
The tutorials can be found in [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started
Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel requires,
1. Defining and building a quantum circuit
2. Decomposing a circuit
3. Writing the circuit to assembly

The circuit can be built with the `CircuitBuilder` class. Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that

> includes a Hadamard gate, a Z gate, a Y gate, and a rotation X gate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes a Hadamard gate, a Z gate, a Y gate, and a rotation X gate.

```

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

> # Build the circuit structure using the CircuitBuilder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
```

builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

> # Create a new circuit from the constructed structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
```

circuit = builder.to_circuit()
```
The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).

> In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

```

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by

> invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

```

```python
from opensquirrel.writer import writer

writer.circuit_to_string(circuit)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

The output is then the following `cQASM3` string.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

version 3.0

qubit[1] q

Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(1.5707963) q[0]
Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(3.1415927) q[0]
Rz(1.5707963) q[0]
Ry(1.0471976) q[0]
Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## Documentation

OpenSquirrel documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://QuTech-Delft.github.io/OpenSquirrel/).

> The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyer` notebooks with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with
```

example tutorials.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 jgs `"=\_  )_"`
          ``'"`
```

> OpenSquirrel is a quantum compiler that chooses a _modular_, over a _configurable_, approach to prepare and optimize quantum circuits for heterogeneous target architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

OpenSquirrel is a quantum compiler that chooses a _modular_, over a _configurable_, approach to prepare and optimize quantum circuits for heterogeneous target architectures.
```

It has a user-friendly interface and is straightforwardly extensible with custom-made readers, compiler passes, and exporters.
As a quantum circuit compiler, it is fully aware of the semantics of each gate and arbitrary quantum gates can be constructed manually.
It understands the quantum programming language cQASM 3 and will support additional quantum programming languages in the future.
It is developed in modern Python and follows best practices.

## Installation

We encourage installing OpenSquirrel via `pip`:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel
```

> To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:
```

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```

> The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).
```

## Getting started

Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel requires,
1. Defining and building a quantum circuit
2. Decomposing a circuit
3. Writing the circuit to assembly

The circuit can be built with the `CircuitBuilder` class. Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that
includes a Hadamard gate, a Z gate, a Y gate, and a rotation X gate.

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()
```

> The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
```

In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

```python
from opensquirrel.writer import writer

writer.circuit_to_string(circuit)
The output is then the following `cQASM3` string.
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(1.5707963) q[0]
Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(3.1415927) q[0]
Rz(1.5707963) q[0]
Ry(1.0471976) q[0]
Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]

> ## Documentation

Reviewer: Missing end of code triple backticks here plus a blank line.

## Installation

We encourage installing OpenSquirrel via `pip`:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel
```
To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```
The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started

Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel requires,
1. Defining and building a quantum circuit using the openSquirrel IR directly or using a `CQASM` string
2. Modifying and traversing the circuit
3. Writing the circuit to assembly

The circuit can be built with the `CircuitBuilder` class. Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that
includes a Hadamard gate, a Z gate, a Y gate, and a rotation X gate.

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder

> circuit = builder.to_circuit()
> ```
> This can also be done directly using a `CQASM3` string as shown below,
> ```python
> from opensquirrel.circuit import Circuit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
circuit = builder.to_circuit()
```

This can also be done directly using a `CQASM3` string as shown below:

```python
from opensquirrel.circuit import Circuit
```

cqasm_string = (
"""
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

H q[0]
Z q[0]
Y q[0]
Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
""")

qc = Circuit.from_string(cqasm_string)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

> 
> ```python
> from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer
> 
> circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
> Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
> invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
```

Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.
````

```python
from opensquirrel.writer import writer

writer.circuit_to_string(circuit)
The output is then the following `cQASM3` string.
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(1.5707963) q[0]
Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(3.1415927) q[0]
Rz(1.5707963) q[0]
Ry(1.0471976) q[0]
Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]
```

## Documentation

OpenSquirrel documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://QuTech-Delft.github.io/OpenSquirrel/).
The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with
example tutorials.

## Contributing

The contribution guidelines and set up can be found
[here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```

The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started

Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel can be seen as a 3-stage process:
1. Defining and building the quantum circuit using either the `CircuitBuilder` or from a `cQASM` string.
2. Executing multiple passes on the circuit, each traversing and modifying it (e.g., a decomposition).
3. Exporting the circuit (to `cQASM` again, or to a _lowered_ language like QuantifyScheduler). 

Here is an example of building a circuit using the `CircuitBuilder`:

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()

cqasm_string = (
"""
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

H q[0]
Z q[0]
Y q[0]
Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
""")

qc = Circuit.from_string(cqasm_string)
```

> The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy.
The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
```

It has a user-friendly interface and is straightforwardly extensible with custom-made readers, compiler passes, and exporters.
As a quantum circuit compiler, it is fully aware of the semantics of each gate and arbitrary quantum gates can be constructed manually.
It understands the quantum programming language cQASM 3 and will support additional quantum programming languages in the future.
It is developed in modern Python and follows best practices.

## Installation

We encourage installing OpenSquirrel via `pip`:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel
```

To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```

The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started

Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel can be seen as a 3-stage process:
1. Defining and building the quantum circuit using either the `CircuitBuilder` or from a `cQASM` string.
2. Executing multiple passes on the circuit, each traversing and modifying it (e.g., a decomposition).

> 3. Exporting the circuit (to `cQASM` again, or to a _lowered_ language like QuantifyScheduler). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Exporting the circuit (to `cQASM` again, or to a _lowered_ language like `cQASM3`). 
```

Here is an example of building a circuit using the `CircuitBuilder`:

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()

cqasm_string = (
"""
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

H q[0]
Z q[0]
Y q[0]
Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
""")

> qc = Circuit.from_string(cqasm_string)

Reviewer: Can you please put this in a different code block? You can add the following text before:

``And here is an example of building a circuit from a `cQASM` string``.

Author: I do not know how I missed this originally hahahahaha

Reviewer: Done,  nice!

```

The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy.
The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
```

> Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
> invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`.
This is done by invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.
```

```python
from opensquirrel.writer import writer

writer.circuit_to_string(circuit)
The output is then the following `cQASM3` string.
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(1.5707963) q[0]
Rz(3.1415927) q[0]
Ry(3.1415927) q[0]
Rz(1.5707963) q[0]
Ry(1.0471976) q[0]
Rz(-1.5707963) q[0]
```

## Documentation

OpenSquirrel documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://QuTech-Delft.github.io/OpenSquirrel/).

> The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with
> example tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [example](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example) folder contains `Jupyter` notebooks with example tutorials.
```

          ``'"`
```

OpenSquirrel is a quantum compiler that chooses a _modular_, over a _configurable_, approach to prepare and optimize quantum circuits for heterogeneous target architectures.

It has a user-friendly interface and is straightforwardly extensible with custom-made readers, compiler passes, and exporters.
As a quantum circuit compiler, it is fully aware of the semantics of each gate and arbitrary quantum gates can be constructed manually.
It understands the quantum programming language cQASM 3 and will support additional quantum programming languages in the future.
It is developed in modern Python and follows best practices.

## Installation

We encourage installing OpenSquirrel via `pip`:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel
```

To install the dependencies to run the examples on `jupyter`, install:

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```

The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started

> Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel requires,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel requires:
```

> 1. Defining and building a quantum circuit using the openSquirrel IR directly or using a `CQASM` string
> 2. Modifying and traversing the circuit
> 3. Writing the circuit to assembly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Defining and building the quantum circuit using either the `CircuitBuilder` or from a `cQASM` string.
2. Executing multiple passes on the circuit, each traversing and modifying it (e.g., a decomposition).
3. Exporting the circuit (to `cQASM` again, or to a _lowered_ language like QuantifyScheduler). 
```

> The circuit can be built with the `CircuitBuilder` class. Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that
```

> The circuit can be built with the `CircuitBuilder` class. Here is an example of building a single qubit circuit that
> includes a Hadamard gate, a Z gate, a Y gate, and a rotation X gate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of building a circuit using the `CircuitBuilder`.
```

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()

cqasm_string = (
"""
version 3.0

qubit[1] q

H q[0]
Z q[0]
Y q[0]
Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
""")

qc = Circuit.from_string(cqasm_string)
```

The circuit can then be decomposed using a decomposition strategy. The different decomposition strategies can be found in the [tutorials](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example/tutorials).
In the example below, the circuit is decomposed using `ZYZDecomposer`.

```python
from opensquirrel.decomposer.aba_decomposer import ZYZDecomposer

circuit.decompose(decomposer=ZYZDecomposer())
```

Once the circuit is decomposed, the circuit is written to low level assembly language, namely `cQASM3`. This is done by
invoking the `writer` class, as can be seen below.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
$ pip install opensquirrel[examples]
```

The tutorials can be found [here](https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/OpenSquirrel/tree/develop/example).

## Getting started

Essentially, compiling a circuit in OpenSquirrel can be seen as a 3-stage process:
1. Defining and building the quantum circuit using either the `CircuitBuilder` or from a `cQASM` string.
2. Executing multiple passes on the circuit, each traversing and modifying it (e.g., a decomposition).
3. Exporting the circuit (to `cQASM` again, or to a _lowered_ language like `cQASM3`).

Here is an example of building a circuit using the `CircuitBuilder`:

```python
import math
from opensquirrel.circuit_builder import CircuitBuilder
from opensquirrel.ir import Qubit, Float

# Tell the circuit builder how you want your circuit
builder = CircuitBuilder(qubit_register_size=1)
builder.H(Qubit(0))
builder.Z(Qubit(0))
builder.Y(Qubit(0))
builder.Rx(Qubit(0), Float(math.pi / 3))

# Get the circuit from the circuit builder
circuit = builder.to_circuit()
```

Alternatively, one can build a circuit from a `cQASM` string:

```python
from opensquirrel.circuit import Circuit

> cqasm_string = (
> """
> version 3.0
> 
> qubit[1] q
> 
> H q[0]
> Z q[0]
> Y q[0]
> Rx(1.0471976) q[0]
> """)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cqasm_string = ("""
    version 3.0
    
    qubit q
    
    H q
    Z q
    Y q
    Rx(1.0471976) q
""")
```
